source: https://cycleroutes.wordpress.com/2011/10/08/amsterdam-cycle-route-9-dike-villages-grassland-landscape-heritage-tourism/


Amsterdam Cycle Route 9: dike villages, grassland landscape, heritage tourism
Posted on October 8, 2011 by cycleroutes
This cycle route passes relict dike settlements and interwar garden-city housing, and continues through reclaimed marshes to the heritage-tourism island of Marken, returning along the mediaeval sea dike.
48 km, 5 hours.
Revised February 2015.
Recommended cycle map: the ANWB Fietskaart Noord-Holland Zuid (Amsterdam & Kennemerland), which costs € 9.
The map is nr.
13 in the ANWB Fietskaart series, the scale is 1:50 000, and all the cycle routes here are within the map area.
There are two specialised map shops in Amsterdam: Pied à Terre (Overtoom 135-137), and A la Carte (Utrechtsestraat 110/112).
weather radar and weather map for today and tomorrow
start at the ferry landing behind Centraal Station (Route 8 also starts here).
The waterfront has been shifted 40 m into the water, to make room for a new bus station, and the road will be put in tunnel.
cross the IJ, by ferry to Buiksloterweg.
The destination is indicated on the ferry.
The IJ estuary was once wider, but land was reclaimed on both sides.
Centraal Station was built in 1889 on an artificial island, between the old city and the estuary.
A ferry was for centuries the only connection, to what is now Amsterdam-Noord (North).
Until the housing projects of the 1920’s it remained rural, and was not considered part of Amsterdam.
After many plans for a bridge, a road tunnel (IJ-tunnel) opened in 1968.
Amsterdam-Noord has 88 000 inhabitants.
on the other side, cycle away from the ferry, along the entrance basin of the Noordhollands Kanaal (1824).
Shipping waits here, to enter the locks ahead.
The canal was one of several attempts to by-pass the shallows to the east of Amsterdam.
Curiously, the leading maritime city of early-modern Europe had one of the least accessible harbours.
Solutions included the Nieuwe Vaart canal in the east of the city, a never-completed canal through the island of Marken (later in this route) , and extra floats under ships.
The Noordhollands Kanaal allowed ships to be drawn by teams of horses to Den Helder, on the open North Sea coast.
The North Sea Canal, cut straight ...(line truncated)...

go straight on to the locks, past the weatherboarded 1920’s house with pyramidal roof.
Cross the locks, using the footbridge across the lock-gates.
House Buikslotermeer Amsterdam

go past the construction site, immediately after the locks (now mainly used for storage).
The long-delayed North-South metro line, planned to open in 2017, passes under the construction site.
go on along the cycle path.
At the end of the path, the ventilation towers of the IJ-tunnel are on your left, and ahead is a basketball court.
Go left, along the road here, the curving Meeuwen laan.
Mosque Meeuwenlaan

turn second left, at the green-tiled mosque, into the Valken weg.
Continue straight on, past local shops, into the Sperwer laan.
at the end, go slightly left and then straight on, along the Adelaars weg, alongside the motorway.
(Don’t cross the motorway).
Adelaars weg is the line of the former steam tram, north to Purmerend and other small towns (finally closed in the 1950’s).
The low-density housing was built in the 1920’s.
This area is only 2 km from the city centre: when the metro opens, the barrier effect of the IJ river will disappear, and gentrification has already begun.
The future metro line will run in the central reservation of the motorway.
continue straight on, to the end of Adelaars weg, at a cluster of shops.
Cross the road there (this is also Meeuwen laan).
Turn left, and then right, into the Nieuwendammer dijk.
Follow the cycle signs for Zunderdorp / Schellingwoude.
cycle along Nieuwendammer dijk, at first past 19th-century and 20th-century houses.
The older village core of Nieuwendam is 1 km further.
This road is the oldest urban structure in Amsterdam-Noord: it is the mediaeval sea dike.
Nieuwendam

Nieuwendam is one of the four mediaeval settlements along the dike, along with Buiksloot, Schellingwoude and Durgerdam.
You can see it is a dike, because the alleyways between the houses slope sharply down from the road.
Many are typical dike houses – apparently single-storey when seen from the road, but with another level below.
The sea was on the right-hand side, at least until the 1870’s, when much of the IJ estuary was reclaimed.
continue toward the village core of Nieuwendam.
Pass the first church, a Catholic church dating from 1889.
It is typical in Dutch villages, that the oldest churches are Protestant.
After the Reformation, the Protestants got all the existing churches, and Catholic churches were forbidden.
The emancipation of Catholics in the 19th century led to a wave of Catholic church building, that continued into the 1920’s.
pass Café ‘t Sluisje, and go over the lock (sluice) which gives the café its name.
It is the reason for the existence of a settlement here: Nieuwendam was originally a fishing village around a small harbour, with access to the canals of the polders behind the dike.
beside nr 331, turn left into Kerkepad, church path.
This too is a typical feature of a dike village – a path leading inland to the church.
The church (protestant) is surrounded by newer infill.
pass the church: the small graveyard is raised above ground-water level.
After this point, the remnants of mediaeval settlement end abruptly.
Everything else has been added since the First World War.
turn right, along the cycle path of the Purmer weg.
This area was built in the 1920’s, influenced by the Garden City Movement.
About 200 m on, you pass its centrepiece, the roughly hexagonal Purmer plein.
continue along Purmer weg, passing streets with weatherboarded entrance portals.
Although it counts as architectural heritage, the area is not gentrified as yet.
Purmerplein Amsterdam

the road makes a 45-degree turn, into the Volendammer weg: follow the sign for Monnickendam.
There is a small open space here, with a monument for the war years.
The Commemoration of the Dead at these monuments, on the evening of 4 May, is symbolic of national unity.
This 1950’s sentiment is increasingly irrelevant, three generations after the war.
The neighbourhood also seems symbolic of a vanished social vision: a land of white Dutch working families, in neat houses with neat gardens, divided by religion, but with a strong sense of national and social identity, and a common past.
continue along the Volendammer weg.
The inter-war built-up area ends here.
After the 1920’s expansion, came came the worldwide depression, the Second World War, and post-war austerity.
There is a park with a lake – and beyond it is where the city started to expand again.
Here in Nieuwendam-Noord urban expansion did not restart until the 1960’s.
If there are many people on the street, you can see that this is a typical immigrant housing area.
(The older low-rise housing remains ‘white’).
cross the IJdoorn laan (the main transverse route through Amsterdam-Noord), and continue along the Volendammer weg.
Many of these 4/5-storey blocks will be demolished in the next 10 to 20 years – not because they are derelict, but because they are cheap.
Replacing low-rent housing with expensive new apartments, replaces low-income tenants with high-income owners.
For neoliberal urban theorists, that is an unquestioned advantage.
pass under the ring motorway.
At the council depot, go left onto the cycle path (cycle sign for Doorgaand verkeer).
Continue past the orange/blue sculpture, to the white wooden cycle bridge.
Sculpture Amsterdam-Noord

as you cycle onto the bridge, the city ends.
The ring motorway is the boundary of the built-up area, as planned in the 1920’s.
This is probably one of the sharpest urban edges in western Europe.
cycle straight on, into the open polder landscape of Waterland.
Pass under the Amsterdam ring power line, into a preserved mediaeval settlement landscape – church towers mark the small villages.
This is classic Netherlands grassland landscape.
Until the middle ages, most of the province of Holland was uninhabited peat bog.
Reclamation converted it into a dense population concentration, of European significance.
The peat here was originally above sea level.
It shrank when ploughing exposed it to air, and a sea dike was then necessary (around 1300).
Since then, the region has been grassland.
Ironically, the grazing cattle, used as an icon of Holland for three centuries, may permanently disappear into...(line truncated)...

at the next road, turn left, follow the cycle sign for Zunderdorp.
Use the cycle path.
after 500 m, at the cluster of sheds, turn right onto a new footpath / cycle path, over a cattle grid (veerooster).
cross a small bridge (the right-hand bridge), and cycle on through the fields.
About 1 km on, the path rises a few metres, enough to give an excellent view of the open flat landscape.
stop at the metal/concrete information panel for Volgermeerpolder, just beside the cycle path.
This is the largest toxic waste dump in the Netherlands.
The area was first used as a domestic waste landfill by the city of Amsterdam.
Tens of thousands of barrels of pesticide residue were illegally dumped, from the 1950’s onward: it became one of the great Dutch environmental scandals.
The landfill closed in 1981: the present solution is the result of years of research, and took six years to implement.
The waste is still there under your feet, covered by multiple protective layers, which are intended to form a natural seal.
cycle on toward the village visible ahead.
at the end of the path, turn right over the bridge, and then next street left, into Broek in Waterland.
Follow the cycle sign for Monickendam here, the street name is Wagengouw, but there is no sign at this corner.
The village of Broek in Waterland has been a tourist destination since the 17th century, originally for is prosperity, neatness, and cleanliness, and now for its historic wooden houses, painted in a distinct local colour.
after 500 m, turn right: this is still Wagengouw, but it looks like a side street.
Follow the cycle sign for Monnickendam.
cross the narrow cycle bridge: you can see some of the local architectural style here.
Just after the bridge, turn right, follow the cycle sign for Zuiderwoude.
go straight on (cycle sign ‘Doorgaand Verkeer’), and out of the village.
After the last houses, use the cycle path on the right, because the road is dangerously narrow.
cycle 2 km on, to the small village of Zuiderwoude.
You can stop to rest in front of the church, on park benches facing the lake.
A sign explains the history of the area: the lakes are the result of early-mediaeval flooding.
The village looks idyllic: but remember that without intensive planning control, a sea of suburban houses would have reached it by now.
You are 11 km from the Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
pass the church, and cycle on into Zuiderwouder Dorpsstraat: follow the sign for dorpshuis / school.
at the end of the village, the road bends left: follow the sign for Marken.
The small town of Monnickendam is visible left.
at the end of the road, go up the steps, to the cycle path on the dike.
Turn right, toward Marken.
You are again on the mediaeval sea dike of North Holland and West-Friesland.
Beside the steps is a green cast-iron pillar with the number 26: this is one of the dike marker posts, at 1 km intervals.
Ahead, to the right, is the island of Marken.
This is the shore of the Gouwzee, an arm of the Zuiderzee.
The dike lost its primary function when the Afsluitdijk (enclosure dike) was completed at 13.02 on 28 May 1932.
Marken was, until the late 19th century, a very poor fishers island, inaccessible during winter ...(line truncated)...

pass the junction of the 1957 dike with the old sea dike: go straight on.
800 m further, at the wind turbines, the dike turns north.
The former sea coast is visible, from Amsterdam to the wooded ridge of the Gooi (with the Hilversum TV tower, about 22 km away).
The nearer buildings are the centre of the new city of Almere in the Flevo polder (reclaimed 1968).
To the north-east, on clear days, you can see the Lelystad telecom tower: most of Lelystad is below the horizon.
cycle along the dike, built as part of the plans for a Markerwaard polder.
Reclamation of Markerwaard was abandoned – due to environmental concerns, and also the growing water-sport lobby.
as you approach Marken, the settlement pattern is visible: raised clusters of houses.
At the ring dike of the island, the road dips into the low-lying land: the island is itself a polder (263 hectares).
sources: settlement and landscape history
for Amsterdam and the region in general:
Atlas Amsterdam.
1999.
Bussum: THOTH
C. Dijkstra, M. Reitsma, A Rommerts.
for all other settlements the provincial survey
Monumenten Inventarisatie Project Noord-Holland
Series published by the Provincie Noord-Holland.
the parking area marks the start of tourist Marken: cycle left around it, to the wooden bridge.
(The island’s only supermarket, Deen, is opposite the car park).
Marken village

cross the bridge and follow the only road (at first), then the signs for Haven.
At the harbour itself (haven in Dutch), some original houses have been preserved, now cafes, restaurants, or souvenir shops for heritage tourism – in summer with Marken folk in traditional costume.
turn right and then next right, away from the harbour.
The numbers in circles on signs are the junctions of a cycle route network: go toward junction 52.

pass through a newer section of the village, cross the Juliana brigde, and turn left to Kerkbuurt (church quarter) – follow the signs for ‘Grote Kerk’ / junction 52.
Kerkbuurt Marken

This settlement was founded by monks from the monastery Mariëngaarde in Friesland, around 1235.
The monks organised the construction of dikes to protect the island, and built a monastery here on artificially raised ground.
In later centuries more of these artificial mounds were added, about 1,5 m above sea level: they are called a ‘terp’ in Friesland.
The largest cluster of houses is around the harbour (Haven), the others are: Kets, Wittewerf, Grotewerf, Rozenwerf, Moeniswerf, and Kerkbuurt.
At the terp edg...(line truncated)...

pass the church and the small museum, and follow the path out of Kerkbuurt into open land.
At the bus stop (bus 315 to Amsterdam), turn right, toward junction 52.
Use the cycle path (left of the road at first).
cycle back towards the main car-park: further on, the island’s lighthouse is visible (left).
Also on the left are the other clusters of houses: they give a better impression of the original settlement structure.
pass the car-park, back onto the road to the dike.
Beside the road (right) is the never-completed exit canal from Amsterdam, avoiding the Pampus shallows.
It was cut in 1825, left unfinished, and later much of it silted up.
Its curved line is still clearly visible from the air.
It may seem strange to cut a canal through an island, when you can sail around it already – but with the technology of the time, that was the best option to avoid the shallows.
after the wind turbines, turn left, following the sign for Durgerdam.
Use the cycle path (left of the road).
This route now follows the old Waterland sea dike, back to Amsterdam.
At first, there is reclaimed land on the ‘seaward’ side.
1 km on, pass the yacht harbour of Uitdam: the path now runs along the top of the curving dike.
at the small village of Uitdam, the cycle path drops back down to the road.
This is a farming village rather than a fishing village, oriented to the polder, the landward side.
After the village, the path climbs back up to the dike.
pass another cast-iron marker for the 30 km point, with the inscription Noorder IJ en zee dijk.
On the land side are lakes, some created when the dike broke in the past.
Some were reclaimed again, as a polder within the polder, such as Blijkmeer polder alongside post 33.
Note the small ring canal around this former lake.
pass Kinsel meer, the largest of the lakes.
Ahead on the seaward side of the dike is the IJdoorn promontory.
A new marshy lagoon – “new nature” – was created here, by building a breakwater parallel to the dike.
Beside the iron lighthouse tower at the point is a fortified battery of the 19th century defence line Stelling van Amsterdam.
This battery guarded the entrance to the IJ estuary.
the cycle path ends, go on into the village of Durgerdam.
This is a harbour village, oriented to the seaward side: it still is a yacht harbour.
at the small weatherboarded church (1687), the dike makes a right-angle turn.
The new arch bridges to Amsterdam’s newest suburb, IJburg, are visible to the south.
Durgerdam

100 m before the ring power line, turn right onto the cycle path in the fields, toward junction 46.

about 1 km further, pass under the ring motorway, and then under the viaduct of the arched Schellingwoude bridge.
Follow the cycle signs for Centrum.
after the cycle path ends, you enter the next dike village, Schellingwoude.
The road is on the dike, the houses are all on the landward side, and there is still some open water, with moored boats.
This dike settlement has retained its basic structure – but everything else you can see, is a 19th-century or 20th-century addition.
continue along the Schellingwouder dijk.
After nr 83, the original dike is cut by a never-completed road project.
Go onto the cycle path, then follow the sign for Centrum.
Be careful crossing the road here!
cycle on toward Centrum.
At first this appears to be a dead-end road, but it turns right to rejoin the old dike road.
You are now back in Nieuwendam.
cycle into the village core: you are now back on the outward route.
Cross once again the lock at Cafe ‘t Sluisje.
continue to the end of Nieuwendammer dijk.
Cross the road, at the cycle crossing, and turn left along the main road, Meeuwen laan.
Bredero school Amsterdam

pass a roundabout, go straight on.
at the corner of Haviks laan, just after you pass the Dirk van den Broek supermarket, turn left across the road.
go under the block on pillars: the street name is Motor wal.
cycle along the Motor wal, a former dock basin.
At the end, the whole of the eastern docklands are visible, from the mouth of the Amsterdam-Rhine Canal to Centraal Station.
Again, almost all of this was reclaimed in the 19th century.
turn right along Noord wal.
At the end of Noord wal, use an unnamed footpath along the water’s edge: it brings you to the IJplein ferry.
cross by the ferry (every 15 minutes off-peak, every 7 minutes peak times), to the landing stage behind Centraal Station, the end point of this route.

