The View From Four Seasons Hotel George V, Paris 
Photo Courtesy of Four Seasons Hotels Limited

With Christmas behind us, the countdown toward the end of the year has begun. Around the globe, New Year’s Eve will be rung in with fireworks, bubbly and much fanfare. Whether you want to toast to 2016 in the subtropics or surrounded by snowflakes, here’s where to properly celebrate New Year’s Eve.

Singapore
Multicultural Singapore is the place to go for those who love food. Eating is a national pastime here, and asking locals where to get the best satay may well start an argument. For New Year’s Eve dinner at fine-dining Les Amis or one of Singapore’s Star-Rated restaurants, be sure to book early. Count down to midnight with a glass of champagne in hand and your eyes on the fireworks over Forbes Travel Guide Four-Star Marina Bay Sands at Five-Star Mandarin Oriental, Singapore. Reserve the hotel’s New Year’s Eve Fireworks View deal to ensure you have the best look at the light show.

InterContinental Hong Kong, Photo Courtesy of InterContinental Hong Kong

Hong Kong
Watch fireworks light up the sky over Victoria Harbour and the city’s iconic skyline. The show starts at 11 p.m., with an eight-minute pyrotechnics display set to music kicking off at midnight. Fireworks can be seen from both the Hong Kong Island and Kowloon waterfronts. The best views are from sky-high hotel rooms. For a private viewing theater, book a room on the Kowloon side at InterContinental Hong Kong, The Ritz-Carlton, Hong Kong, The Langham Hong Kong (the Linger Longer promotion, with its daily hotel credit and late checkout, is especially appealing right now) or the Kowloon Shangri-La, and on the Island side at Four Seasons Hotel Hong Kong.

Paris
For New Year’s Day excitement that the whole family can partake in, the City of Light is your answer. Though the recent tragic events in Paris may affect some New Year’s gatherings, the city will still be putting on a massive gathering, La Grande Parade de Paris, down the Champs-Élysées. Thousands of dancers and musicians from across Europe and the U.S. will march, along with colorful floats, in celebration of the new year. For a prime viewing spot, book a room at Four Seasons Hotel George V, Paris, a gorgeous hotel offering its Romance package (breakfast, champagne, spa voucher) to couples who’d like to ring in 2016 in fine-tapestried grandeur.

Grand Hotel Kempinski Geneva, Photo Courtesy of Grand Hotel Kempinski Geneva

Geneva
Switzerland’s second-largest city is fairly quiet over New Year’s, as Genevois head to the mountains to ski and get some sun — but don’t let that deter you. Take a day trip and hit the slopes, then come back to the city and watch the fireworks burst over Lake Geneva. Spend the night at the waterfront Hotel President Wilson, A Luxury Collection Hotel, where you can say goodbye to 2015 from a heated pool with views of the Alps. Neighboring Grand Hotel Kempinski Geneva, which actually puts on the fireworks display, also hosts a gala dinner filled with local wines, champagne and live entertainment. Score the hotel’s Sterling package and you will not only count down with tickets to the bash and luxe accommodations, but with buffet breakfast, unlimited spa usage and complimentary Wi-Fi as well.

