 

Ubud is yogi heaven. Despite its small size (it’s really a collection of villages) there are dozens of classes to choose from every day. You’ll find styles to suit everyone from spiritual practices to fast paced vinyasa and power flows. Studios are well equipped and make the most of Ubud’s tranquil beauty with views of rice fields and jungle. Classes are affordable, especially if you buy a class pass which can reduce the drop-in price (usually 120,000 IDR/ $8.60) by half. Starting your day with a yoga class is a great way to get into the relaxed, healthy Ubud vibe.

 

During my four months in Ubud I attended classes most days and tried the five main studios in the centre of Ubud and the neighbouring village Penestanan.

Top 5 Yoga Studios in Ubud

All the yoga studios provide free mats, props, and water. The schedules change each month so check their websites before you plan a visit.

The Yoga Barn

The Yoga Barn is by far the biggest and most popular yoga studio in Ubud. It’s more of a resort than a regular studio with five yoga spaces, guest accommodation, healthy restaurant, juice bar, and treatment room. There are yoga teacher trainings, workshops, events, and film nights. Despite its location in the southern part of central Ubud (close to the Monkey Forest) it feels like an oasis of tropical flowers, bamboo, and lotus filled ponds.

The best thing about The Yoga Barn is the huge variety of yoga and meditation classes available—up to 15 a day. Whether you prefer powerful flow classes or gentle meditation you’re sure to find a class to suit you. The varied schedule was the main reason that I attended classes here more than anywhere else. The teaching quality varies and I had to try a few classes before I found some teachers that I connected with (I like Tanya and Eka). I usually went to morning flow and vinyasa slow which, despite being level 1 classes, I found challenging but enjoyable. I also enjoyed the deep stretching of yin classes, and experimented with styles I hadn’t tried before.

The downside of The Yoga Barn is the massive class sizes—up to 60 people in the large open sided upstairs studio, and 35 in the smaller room below. Even in the low season the classes were almost always full and you need to arrive at least 20 minutes before to guarantee a space. I usually had enough space around my mat but the class sizes could be overwhelming and I didn’t get to know the teachers or receive adjustments.

I think The Yoga Barn is best for experienced practitioners who don’t mind large class sizes and want to try a variety of styles. I don’t recommend it for complete beginners—the classes are too big which makes it difficult to see the instructor and you are unlikely to receive adjustments. Only the meditation and gentler yin and restorative classes would be suitable for anyone.

Website: The Yoga Barn
Location: Jalan Raya Pengosekan, Ubud. Near Coco supermarket.
Classes: Vinyasa flow, power yoga, hatha, yin, restorative, acro yoga, gentle yoga, intro to yoga, various meditation, ecstatic dance, and more.
Cost: 130,000 IDR ($9.30) for 1 class, 330,000 IDR ($24) for 3, 500,000 IDR ($36) for 5, 900,000 IDR ($64) for 10, 1.4 million ($100) for 20, 2.6 million ($186) for 30 days unlimited. Class passes can be shared with a friend as long as you attend together.

Radiantly Alive

Radiantly Alive is another popular studio with a central location, but it’s less overwhelming than the Yoga Barn. There are three yoga rooms and 5-7 classes a day including interesting options like arm balance, fly high yoga, and roll and release (self-massage using balls). They also offer teacher training. It feels like more of an American-style yoga studio with fun teachers, fast paced flow classes, and “normal” rather than yogi music. The slower classes like gentle flow and yin were usually attended by 20-40 people, but the RA vinyasa classes were very crowded with up to 70 students crammed in during high season. The vinyasa classes are fun, sweaty, and very popular with regulars, but too fast for my taste. All the teachers were excellent and despite the large class sizes, they managed to offer individual adjustments.

Radiantly Alive differs from other studios by offering unlimited passes rather than for a specific number of classes. If you are happy to commit to the studio and want to attend many classes this can be a great deal, but it’s not ideal if you want to mix and match classes from various studios. I spent a week here and went to 13 classes which brought the cost down to $3 each.

I recommend Radiantly Alive for experienced yogis as most classes assume a certain level of knowledge. If you like challenging vinyasa classes and don’t mind large class sizes, I’m sure you’ll enjoy it.

Website: Radiantly Alive 
Location: Jalan Jembawan 3, Ubud. Across from Bali Buda restaurant.
Classes: Gentle flow, RA vinyasa, yin, restorative, fly high yoga, roll and release, pilates.
Cost: 140,000 IDR ($10) for 1 class and unlimited passes: 170,000 IDR ($12) for 1 day, 550,000 IDR ($39) for 7 days, 860,000 IDR ($62) for 14 days, 1.5 million IDR ($107) for 1 month.

Ubud Yoga House

After months of anonymous classes at The Yoga Barn it was a relief when I discovered Ubud Yoga House. This small studio is much friendlier and more relaxed than the other studios—it’s actually in owner Sheila’s lovely house with gorgeous views over the rice fields. The maximum class size is 12 people so it’s a more personal experience—the teacher Lindsey took the time to chat to us and we all introduced ourselves before the class started. She gave adjustments during the class and a little massage during shavasana, and at the end we were given cold towels and lemon water—just what we needed in the tropical heat.

It doesn’t have the variety of other studios—just two classes at 7.30am and 9am on weekdays. Although the earlier class is described as gentle yoga, I didn’t find it much different to the later morning flow class—I really enjoyed both and felt so relaxed afterwards. Simon found all the sun salutations in the gentle class quite tiring as he’s not used to yoga. Classes are only an hour (whereas most classes in town are 90 minutes), but they often overrun. You can book a place online (usually the day before was fine) which means you don’t have to arrive too early or worry about classes being full.

Ubud Yoga House is ideal for beginners and intermediate yogis as classes can be personalised to your experience level. It’s friendly, unpretentious, and has the best yoga studio view.

My experience at the Yoga House was much more enjoyable than the Yoga Barn and I would have attended classes here regularly if it hadn’t closed for refurbishments. It’s due to reopen in January 2016.

Website: Ubud Yoga House
Location: 10 minute walk from Ubud’s main road (Jalan Raya) through the rice fields on the way to Sari Organik restaurant.
Classes: Gentle yoga, morning flow, sunset meditation.
Cost: 120,000 IDR ($8.60) for 1 class, 750,000 IDR ($54) for 10.

Taksu Yoga

You won’t believe Taksu is in the centre of Ubud—it’s like entering another world, a jungle temple far away from the traffic noise and souvenir shops. The yoga studio overlooks a trickling stream in a huge spa complex that features two restaurants including Fresh which serves beautiful raw vegan cuisine.

In the high season there were two or three classes a day, but as of December, they have been reduced to one. Taksu has the smallest class sizes in Ubud—in one class I was the only student and in the two others there were no more than four of us. The spontaneous flow class with Karen was like a private class—she lets students decide what they’d like to work on. It was great to get such personalised attention and feedback, although a little intimidating at first as I was expecting a group class where I could blend in! I would have attended Taksu more, but most of the classes were in the middle of the day and I found it too hot.

If you want small classes in a beautiful setting then Taksu is a great choice.

Website: Taksu Yoga 
Location: Jalan Goutama, Ubud
Classes: Hatha flow, ashtanga (and more in high season).
Cost: 120,000 IDR ($8.60) for 1 class, 300,000 IDR ($21) for 3, 475,000 IDR ($34) for 5, 800,000 IDR ($57) for 10, 1.2 million ($86) for 20.

Intuitive Flow

Intuitive Flow is located in the village of Penestanan, a few kilometres outside Ubud. When Ubud Yoga House closed this became my quiet alternative to the Barn. There are 3-6 classes a day with a mix of gentler spiritual practices and meditation, and more dynamic flows. I love the setting on a peaceful lane with a beautiful view down to the valley. When I attended in low season there were never more than eight students so the teachers were able to give personal adjustments. I appreciate that the mats are laid out for you so you don’t have to worry about the right place to put them. Their class passes are the cheapest in town.

I didn’t connect with all the teachers so it’s worth trying a few classes to see who suits you best. I found the gentle flow class with Anu very relaxing. The basic yoga class is suitable for beginners.

If you are staying in Penestanan (which has lots of villa rentals) Intuitive Flow is the obvious choice. Even if you’re not, it’s worth considering coming out here if you find the classes in town too crowded.

Website: Intuitive Flow 
Location: A five minute walk down a pedestrian path opposite Alchemy restaurant in Penestanan (look for the signs) or up the Penestanan steps if walking from Ubud.
Classes: Vinyasa flow, hatha, basic yoga, yoga pranala, yin, restorative, meditation.
Cost: 120,000 IDR ($8.60) for 1 class, 400,000 IDR ($29) for 5, 600,000 IDR ($43) for 10, 825,000 IDR ($59) for 15.

Ubud Yoga Studios Map

 

The five studios above are the main yoga spaces in Ubud but many resorts and guesthouses also offer classes. I haven’t tried any of the places listed below.

Other Yoga Classes in Ubud

The Seeds of Life Cafe – This raw vegan restaurant hosts a Mysore-style ashtanga class most mornings from 7-10am. This is an independent practice so you need to know the sequence. They say beginners are welcome but must commit to a minimum of five days to learn the sequence. One class is 200,000 IDR ($14) and passes are available.
Taman Hati – Balinese teacher Ketut offers classes in his family compound in Nyuh Kuning for 100,000 IDR ($7). Kundalini classes (a more spiritual practice) are at 6am, and Pranawayu yoga, his own style similar to vinyasa flow, are at 10am or 5pm most days.
Pilates Studios in Ubud

Ubud Pilates – Mat based pilates classes in Penestanan. 160,000 IDR ($11) per class with a maximum of eight students.
Movement Matters – Equipment and mat based pilates classes in Nyuh Kuning.
Ubud Hotels with Yoga Classes

For the ultimate convenience you might want to choose a hotel that offers yoga classes. They are usually open to non-guests too. Their schedules aren’t as reliable as the yoga studios, and the information on their websites might not be current, so I recommend checking with them in advance.

The Shift Hotel – This boutique hotel next to Alchemy restaurant in Penestanan usually offers up to six classes a day (120,000 IDR/$8.60) but in December 2015 the studio was temporarily closed. There’s a vegan restaurant onsite so this could be a good location for a healthy retreat.
Honeymoon Guesthouse – This guesthouse offers midrange rooms a five minute walk from the centre of Ubud. The yoga classes are a blend of hatha and vinyasa at 7.30am Mondays to Saturdays for 80,000 IDR ($6) or 70,000 IDR ($5) for in-house guests.
Nine Heaven at Sapu Lidi Resort – Three classes a day at this resort south of Ubud in Pengosekan village. They are open to non-guests and cost 120,000 IDR ($8.60).
Swasti Eco Cottages – A small eco resort in Nyuh Kuning with a vegan friendly restaurant using produce from their garden. The schedule varies—in low season there were only two gentle flow and one meditation class a week. Classes are 110,000 IDR ($8) and open to everyone.
White Lotus – A guesthouse near central Ubud that offers meditation classes every Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 6:30 pm. They cost 80,000 IDR ($6) and are open to everyone.
Shriman Yoga Bungalows – Indian classical yoga, vedic astrology, and eco-friendly bungalows in the rice fields just north of Ubud (near Ubud Yoga House).
Ubud Resorts with Free Yoga for Guests

If you want to splurge on somewhere fancy these resorts offer free yoga classes for guests.

Uma by Como Hotel
Sankara
Four Seasons Resort at Sayan
Maya Resort
Puri Sunia Resort
Ashrams and Retreats in Ubud

If you want to immerse yourself in yoga, you might want to participate in a retreat. Some of the above yoga studios offer retreats, or a budget option would be to create your own DIY retreat by staying in a guesthouse close to the studio of your choice and buying a class pass. Here are some other options:

Anand Ashram – A serious ashram 3km north of Ubud with a daily schedule of chanting and yoga sessions. The suggested donation is $23-25 a night per person including room, breakfast, and activities.
Blooming Lotus – Affordable retreats and teacher training in luxury villas outside Ubud.
OneWorld Retreats Kumara – Boutique resort and spa with ongoing yoga retreats.
Amrtasiddhi – Ayurvedic programs that include treatments, detox, and yoga in Nyuh Kuning.
Om Ham – Luxury hotel in Junjungan village 5km north of Ubud that offers retreats and Kundalini tantra yoga once or twice a day.
Ashram Munivara – Works in partnership with Om Ham but has cheaper accommodation. The Kundalini tantra yoga at 4pm is the cheapest class in Ubud at only 35,000 IDR ($2.50).
Gokul Yoga – Ashram with teacher training and retreats. Donation based classes Mondays to Saturdays.
Bagus Jati – High end resort that offers yoga and ayurveda retreats.
Whether you are a complete beginner or experienced yogi, it’s worth taking the time to join one of the many yoga classes and get into the blissed out Ubud vibe.

Related posts:

The Cost of Living in Ubud, Bali
How to Rent a House in Ubud, Bali
Our Temporary Home in Ubud
